OKTA-426134 - Device API public docs (#2549)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/devices/index.md

---
title: Devices
category: management
---

# Device API

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>
<ApiLifecycle access="Limited GA" /><br>

> > **Note:** This feature is only available as a part of the Okta Identity Engine. Please [contact support](mailto:dev-inquiries@okta.com) for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** This feature is only available as a part of Okta Identity Engine. Please [contact support](mailto:dev-inquiries@okta.com) for further information.
```

Author: Can we please update https://oktawiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/2004649380/OIE+API+Reference+Documentation+Guidance?atlOrigin=eyJpIjoiOGM5MGM4Y2RlNDczNDNmNjg3NmJjZDBhN2JmZDFjM2MiLCJwIjoiY29uZmx1ZW5jZS1jaGF0cy1pbnQifQ as I copy + pasted the text

> The Okta Device API provides centralized integration platform to fetch and manage device information. Okta administrators can use these APIs to manage workforce identity Device object information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Okta Device API provides a centralized integration platform to fetch and manage device information. Okta administrators can use these APIs to manage workforce identity Device object information.
```

The Device API supports the following **Device Operations**:
* Get, Delete Device objects.
* Perform lifecycle transitions on the Device objects.

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get started
```

Explore the Device API: [![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://www.getpostman.com/collections/a26c87ca44e0b915c4c7)

> ## Device Operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Device operations
```

> The Device API has the following Device Identity operations:

Reviewer: I feel like we're missing an opportunity for a parallel structure here. What about something like the followin?

The Device API has the following operations:
- Device identity:
- - Create a Device
- - Get a Device
- - etc
- Device Lifecycle:
- - Activate Device
- - Deactivate Device
- - etc

* [Create a Device](#create-a-device)
* [Get a Device](#get-a-device-by-id)
* [List Devices](#list-devices)
* [Delete Device](#delete-device)

The following Device lifecycle operations:

* [Activate Device](#activate-device)
* [Deactivate Device](#deactivate-device)
* [Suspend Device](#suspend-device)
* [Unsuspend Device](#unsuspend-device)

### Create a Device

The enrollment flow of the Okta Verify creates a device in the Okta Device Inventory. [Device Registration](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/identity-engine/devices/device-registration.htm)

### Get a Device by ID

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/devices/${deviceId}" />

Fetches a Device by its `id`. If you don't know the `id`, you can [List Devices](#list-devices).

#### Permitted OAuth2 scopes 
`okta.devices.read`

> #### Request Path Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request path parameters
```

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `deviceId` | String | The `id` of [Device](#device-object) object  |

> #### Request Query Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request query parameters
```

None

> #### Request Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request body
```

None

> #### Response Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Response body
```

The requested [Device](#device-object).

> #### Usage Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Usage example
```

This request fetches a Device object with an `id` value `ftrZooGoT8b41iWRiQs7`:

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \

> "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7JHHhjXrMK0g4"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7JHHhjXrMK0g4"
```

    "created": "2019-10-02T18:03:07.000Z",
    "lastUpdated": "2019-10-02T18:03:07.000Z",
    "profile": {
        "displayName": "Example Device name",
        "platform": "WINDOWS",
        "manufacturer": null,
        "model": null,
        "osVersion": null,
        "serialNumber": "Example",
        "imei": null,
        "meid": null,
        "udid": null,
        "sid": "S-1-11-111"
    },
    "_links": {
        "activate": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7JHHhjXrMK0g4/lifecycle/activate",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        },
        "self": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7JHHhjXrMK0g4",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET",
                    "PATCH",
                    "PUT"
                ]
            }
        },
        "devices": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7JHHhjXrMK0g4/devices",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> ##### Error Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Error response
```

An invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code.

```http
HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "errorCode": "E0000007",
    "errorSummary": "Not found: Resource not found: 123456 (GenericUDObject)",
    "errorLink": "E0000007",
    "errorId": "oaeksGoibBmS9OGYo4vXT7llA",
    "errorCauses": []
}
```

### List Devices

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/devices" />

> Fetches a list of all Devices that are not `DELETED` for your org. Responses will be paginated with maximum size of 200.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetches a list of all Devices that are not `DELETED` for your org. Responses are paginated with maximum size of 200.
```

A subset of Devices can be returned that match a supported search criteria using the `search` query parameter.

> Searches for devices based on the properties specified in the `search` parameter conforming SCIM filter specifications (case insensitive). This data will be eventually consistent. Different results are returned depending on specified queries in the request. Empty list will be returned if no objects match `search` request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Searches for devices based on the properties specified in the `search` parameter conforming SCIM filter specifications (case-insensitive). This data is eventually consistent. The API returns different results depending on specified queries in the request. Empty list are returned if no objects match `search` request.
```

> > **Note:** Listing devices with `search` should not be used as a part of any critical flows, like authentication, updates etc. to prevent potential data loss. `search` results may not reflect latest information, as this endpoint uses a search index which may not be up to date with recent updates to the object. <br> Don't use search results directly for record updates, as the data might be stale and therefore overwrite newer data, resulting in data loss. <br> Use an `id` lookup for records that you update to ensure your results contain the latest data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Listing devices with `search` should not be used as a part of any critical flows—such as authentication or updates—to prevent potential data loss. `search` results may not reflect the latest information, as this endpoint uses a search index which may not be up-to-date with recent updates to the object. <br> Don't use search results directly for record updates, as the data might be stale and therefore overwrite newer data, resulting in data loss. <br> Use an `id` lookup for records that you update to ensure your results contain the latest data.
```

This operation:

* Supports pagination (to a maximum of 200 results).
* Requires [URL encoding](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percent-encoding). For example, `search=profile.displayName eq "Bob"` is encoded as `search=profile.displayName%20eq%20%22Bob%22`. Examples use cURL-style escaping instead of URL encoding to make them easier to read.

> Searches include all Device profile properties, as well as the Device's `id`, `status` and `lastUpdated` properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Searches include all Device profile properties, as well as the Device `id`, `status` and `lastUpdated` properties.
```

> | Search Term Example                             | Description                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Search term example                             | Description                                      |
```

| :---------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `status eq "ACTIVE"`                            | Devices that have a `status` of `ACTIVE`         |
| `lastUpdated gt "yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSZ"`   | Devices last updated after a specific timestamp  |
| `id eq "guo4a5u7JHHhjXrMK0g4"`                  | Devices with a specified `id`                    |
| `profile.displayName eq "Bob"`                  | Devices that have a `displayName` of `Bob`       |
| `profile.platform eq "WINDOWS"`                 | Devices that have an `platform` of `WINDOWS`     |
| `profile.sid sw "S-1" `                         | Devices whose `sid` starts with `S-1`            |

#### Permitted OAuth2 scopes 
`okta.devices.read`

> #### Request Path Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request path parameters
```

None

> #### Request Query Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request query parameters
```

| Parameter   | Type   | Description                                                                                                               |
| ----------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `search`    | String | Searches for devices with a supported [filtering](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) expression for most properties |
| `limit`     | Number | Specifies the number of results returned (maximum `200`)                                                                    |
| `after`     | String | Specifies the pagination cursor for the next page of devices                                                              |

* If you don't specify a value for `limit`, the maximum (200) is used as a default.
* Treat the `after` cursor as an opaque value and obtain it through the next link relation. See [Pagination](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination).

> #### Request Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request body
```

None

> #### Response Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Response body
```

Array of [Device](#device-object) objects.

> #### Usage Example (List all Devices)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Usage example (list all Devices)
```

    "created": "2019-10-02T20:03:07.000Z",
    "lastUpdated": "2019-10-02T20:03:07.000Z",
    "profile": {
        "displayName": "Example Device name 2",
        "platform": "WINDOWS",
        "manufacturer": null,
        "model": null,
        "osVersion": null,
        "serialNumber": "Example 2",
        "imei": null,
        "meid": null,
        "udid": null,
        "sid": "S-1-22-2222"
    },
    "_links": {
        "activate": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7YAHhjXrMN0g4/lifecycle/activate",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        },
        "self": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7YAHhjXrMN0g4",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET",
                    "PATCH",
                    "PUT"
                ]
            }
        },
        "users": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7YAHhjXrMN0g4/users",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
 }
]
```

> #### Usage Example (Search)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Usage example (search)
```

          "meid": null,
          "udid": "36A56558-1793-5B3A-8362-ECBAA14EDD2D",
          "sid": ""
      },
      "_links": {
          "activate": {
              "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7JHHhjXrMK0g4/lifecycle/activate",
              "hints": {
                  "allow": [
                      "POST"
                  ]
              }
          },
          "self": {
              "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7JHHhjXrMK0g4",
              "hints": {
                  "allow": [
                      "GET",
                      "PATCH",
                      "PUT"
                  ]
              }
          },
          "users": {
              "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo4a5u7JHHhjXrMK0g4/users",
              "hints": {
                  "allow": [
                      "GET"
                  ]
              }
          }
      }
  }
]
```

### Delete Device

<ApiOperation method="delete" url="/api/v1/devices/${deviceId}" />

Permanently deletes a Device that is in `DEACTIVATED` status. The Device can be transitioned to `DEACTIVATED` status using [deactivate](#deactivate-device) API.

> This deletion is destructive and would delete all the profile data related to the device. Once deleted, device data can't be recovered. A Device that is not in `DEACTIVATED` status will raise an error if Delete operation is attempted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This deletion is destructive and would delete all the profile data related to the device. Once deleted, device data can't be recovered. A Device that is not in `DEACTIVATED` status raises an error if Delete operation is attempted.
```

#### Permitted OAuth2 scopes 
`okta.devices.manage`

> #### Request Path Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request path parameters
```

| Parameter   | Type   | Description                                                             |
| ----------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `deviceId`  | String | The `id` of [Device](#device-object) object                              |

> #### Request Query Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request query parameters
```

None

> #### Request Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request body
```

None

> #### Response Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Response body
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> #### Usage Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Usage example
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X DELETE \

> -H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/{deviceId}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/{deviceId}"
```

```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Content-Type: application/json
```

> ##### Error Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Error response
```

Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

> ## Lifecycle Operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Lifecycle operations
```

Device lifecycle is defined as transitions of the [Device Status](#device-status) by the associated operations. The Device object follows a predefined lifecycle transition flow. Device Lifecycle operations are idempotent. These are synchronous calls.

* [Activate Device](#activate-device)       
* [Deactivate Device](#deactivate-device)  
* [Suspend Device](#suspend-device)       
* [Unsuspend Device](#unsuspend-device)   

### Activate Device

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/devices/${deviceId}/lifecycle/activate" />

Sets a Device's `status` to `ACTIVE`.

Activated devices can be used to create and delete Device User links.

#### Permitted OAuth2 scopes 
`okta.devices.manage`

> #### Request Path Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request path parameters
```

| Parameter   | Type   | Description                                                             |
| ----------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `deviceId`  | String | The `id` of [Device](#device-object) object                              |

> #### Request Query Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request query parameters
```

None

> #### Request Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request body
```

None

> #### Response Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Response body
```

None

> #### Usage Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Usage example
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/{deviceId}/lifecycle/activate"
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Content-Type: application/json
```

> #### Error Responses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Error responses
```

* Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.
* Passing an `id` that is not in the `CREATED` or `DEACTIVATED` status returns a `400 Bad Request` status code with error code `E0000001`.

### Deactivate Device

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/devices/${deviceId}/lifecycle/deactivate" />

> Sets a Device's `status` to `DEACTIVATED`. Deactivation will cause a Device to lose all Device User Links. A Device should be in `DEACTIVATED` status before it can be [deleted](#delete-device).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets a Device's `status` to `DEACTIVATED`. Deactivation causes a Device to lose all Device User links. A Device should be in `DEACTIVATED` status before it can be [deleted](#delete-device).
```

> **Important**: 
> 1. Deactivating a Device is a **destructive** operation. 
> 2. This action cannot be reversed. 

> > 3. Device deactivation would render associated device factors, management certificates etc. non usable. (Device re-enrollment via Okta Verify is required to make such assets functional again.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 3. Device deactivation renders associated assets—such as device factors and management certificates—non-usable. Device reenrollment via Okta Verify is required to make such assets functional again.
```

#### Permitted OAuth2 scopes 
`okta.devices.manage`

> #### Request Path Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request path parameters
```

| Parameter   | Type   | Description                                                             |
| ----------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `deviceId`  | String | The unique identifier for the [Device](#device-object) object                              |

> #### Request Query Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request query parameters
```

None

> #### Request Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request body
```

None

> #### Response Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Response body
```

None

> #### Usage Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Usage example
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/{deviceId}/lifecycle/deactivate"
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Content-Type: application/json
```

> #### Error Responses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Error responses
```

* Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.
* Passing an `id` that is not in the `ACTIVE` or `SUSPENEDED` status returns a `400 Bad Request` status code with error code `E0000001`.

### Suspend Device

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/devices/${deviceId}/lifecycle/suspend" />

Sets a Device's `status` to `SUSPENDED`.

A device in `ACTIVE` status can transition to `SUSPENDED`. This status is meant to be temporary and hence not destructive in nature.

Suspended devices:

* Can be used to create and delete device user links.
* Can only be [unsuspended](#unsuspend-device) or [deactivated](#deactivate-device).

#### Permitted OAuth2 scopes 
`okta.devices.manage`

> #### Request Path Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request path parameters
```

| Parameter   | Type   | Description                                                             |
| ----------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `deviceId`  | String | The unique identifier for the [Device](#device-object) object                              |

> #### Request Query Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request query parameters
```

None

> #### Request Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request body
```

None

> #### Response Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Response body
```

None

> #### Usage Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Usage example
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/{deviceId}/lifecycle/suspend"
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Content-Type: application/json
```

> ###### Error Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Error response
```

* Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.
* Passing an `id` that is not in the `ACTIVE` status returns a `400 Bad Request` status code with error code `E0000001`.

### Unsuspend Device

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/devices/${deviceId}/lifecycle/unsuspend" />

Unsuspends a Device and by returning its `status` value to `ACTIVE`.

This operation can only be performed on a Device that is in `SUSPENDED` status.

#### Permitted OAuth2 scopes 
`okta.devices.manage`

> #### Request Path Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request path parameters
```

| Parameter   | Type   | Description                                                             |
| ----------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `deviceId`  | String | The unique identifier for the [Device](#device-object) object                              |

> #### Request Query Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request query parameters
```

None

> #### Request Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request body
```

None

> #### Response Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Response body
```

None

> #### Usage Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Usage example
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/{deviceId}/lifecycle/unsuspend"
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Content-Type: application/json
```

> ###### Error Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Error response
```

* Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.
* Passing an `id` that is not in the `SUSPENDED` status returns a `400 Bad Request` status code with error code `E0000001`.

> ## Devices API Objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Device API Objects
```

> ### Device Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Device object
```

> #### Device Properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Device properties
```

| `_links`                | [Link](#devices-object-link-attributes)   | Allowed operations for the device                                                                    |
| `created`               | String                                    | Timestamp when device was created                                                                    |
| `id`                    | String                                    | Unique key for device                                                                                |
| `lastUpdated`           | String                                    | Timestamp when device was last updated                                                               |
| `profile`               | [Profile Object](#device-profile-object)  | Device profile properties                                                                            |
| `status`                | String                                    | Current [status](#device-status) of device. One of `CREATED`, `ACTIVE`, `SUSPENDED` or `DEACTIVATED` |

> #### Device Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Device example
```

         "hints":{
            "allow":[
               "POST"
            ]
         }
      },
      "self":{
         "href":"https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo8jx5vVoxfvJeLb0w4",
         "hints":{
            "allow":[
               "GET",
               "PATCH",
               "PUT"
            ]
         }
      },
      "users":{
         "href":"https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo8jx5vVoxfvJeLb0w4/users",
         "hints":{
            "allow":[
               "GET"
            ]
         }
      },
      "deactivate":{
         "href":"https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices/guo8jx5vVoxfvJeLb0w4/lifecycle/deactivate",
         "hints":{
            "allow":[
               "POST"
            ]
         }
      }
   }
}
```
### Device Status

> More details on [Device Lifecycle](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/identity-engine/devices/manage-device-lifecycle.htm)

The following diagram shows the state object for a Device:
![Device lifecycle flow](/img/okta-device-status.png "Device lifecycle flow")

Okta Verify enrollment results in a device being created in device inventory. The newly created device is in `ACTIVE` status. 

> ### Device Profile Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Device profile object
```

> #### Device Profile Properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Device profile properties
```

| `manufacturer`     | String     | (Optional) Name of the manufacturer of the device. (0-127 characters)                         |
| `meid`             | String     | (Optional) Mobile equipment identifier of the device. (14 characters)                         |
| `model`            | String     | (Optional) Model of the device. (127 characters)                                              |
| `osVersion`        | String     | (Optional) Version of the device OS. (127 characters)                                         |
| `serialNumber`     | String     | (Optional) Serial number of the device. (127 characters)                                      |
| `sid`              | String     | (Optional) Windows Security identifier of the device. (256 characters)                        |
| `udid`             | String     | (Optional) macOS Unique Device identifier of the device. (47 characters)                      |
| `tpmPublicKeyHash` | String     | (Optional) Windows Trsted Platform Module hash value.                                         |
| `secureHardwarePresent` | Boolean    | (Optional) Indicates if the device constains a secure hardware functionality.            |

> #### Device Profile Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Device profile example
```

```json
{
    "profile": {
        "displayName": "Bob - New Device",
        "platform": "MACOS",
        "manufacturer": "Apple Inc.",
        "model": "Macbook Pro 15",
        "osVersion": "10.14.6",
        "serialNumber": "C02VW333HTDF",
        "imei": null,
        "meid": null,
        "udid": "36A56558-1793-5B3A-8362-ECBAA14EDD2D",
        "sid": null
    }
}
```

> #### Devices Object Link Attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Device object link attributes
```

For a Device result, the `_links` contains a full set of operations available for that device. `hints` provides information on allowed HTTP verbs for the `href`.

Here are some links that may be available on a Device, as determined by its status:

> | Link Relation Type       | Description                                                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Link relation type       | Description                                                                                                           |
```

| :----------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `self`                   | A self-referential link to this device                                                                                |
| `activate`               | Lifecycle action to [activate the device](#activate-device)                                                           |
| `deactivate`             | Lifecycle action to [deactivate the device](#deactivate-device)                                                       |
| `suspend`                | Lifecycle action to [suspend the device](#suspend-device)                                                             |
| `unsuspend`              | Lifecycle action to [unsuspend the device](#unsuspend-device)                                                         |

> For example, a device with a `CREATED` status would have the following `_links`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a device with a `CREATED` status has the following `_links`:
```
